README.md, before:

# Docker .NET Core

This repository contains .Net Core parent Docker image source code for Defra.

The following table lists the versions of .Net Core available, and the parent image they are based on:

| .Net Core version  | Parent image   |
| ------------------ | -------------- |
| 3.1                | 3.1-alpine3.12 |

Two parent images are created from this repository:

- `defra-dotnetcore`
- `defra-dotnetcore-development`

It is recommended that services use [multi-stage builds](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build) to produce production and development images, each extending the appropriate parent, from a single Dockerfile.

An [example](./example) is provided to show how parent images can be extended in a Dockerfile for a service. This should be a good starting point for building .Net Core services conforming to FFC standards.

## Versioning

Images should be tagged according to the Dockerfile version and the version of .Net Core on which the image is based. For example, for Dockerfile version `1.0.0` based on .Net Core `3.1.0`, the built image would be tagged `1.0.0-dotnetcore3.1.0`.

## Example file

`Dockerfile` - This is an example project that consumes the parent images created by this repository.

## CI/CD
On commit to master Jenkins will build both `dotnetcore` and `dotnetcore-development` images and push them to the `defradigital` organisation in GitHub if the tag specified in `./Jenkinsfile` does not already exist in DockerHub.  

## Licence

THIS INFORMATION IS LICENSED UNDER THE CONDITIONS OF THE OPEN GOVERNMENT LICENCE found at:

<http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3>

The following attribution statement MUST be cited in your products and applications when using this information.

> Contains public sector information licensed under the Open Government license v3

### About the licence

The Open Government Licence (OGL) was developed by the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) to enable information providers in the public sector to license the use and re-use of their information under a common open licence.

It is designed to encourage use and re-use of information freely and flexibly, with only a few conditions.

Commit message:

docs: add note about certificate inclusion

README.md, after:

# Docker .NET Core

This repository contains .Net Core parent Docker image source code for Defra.

The following table lists the versions of .Net Core available, and the parent image they are based on:

| .Net Core version  | Parent image   |
| ------------------ | -------------- |
| 3.1                | 3.1-alpine3.12 |

Two parent images are created from this repository:

- `defra-dotnetcore`
- `defra-dotnetcore-development`

It is recommended that services use [multi-stage builds](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build) to produce production and development images, each extending the appropriate parent, from a single Dockerfile.

An [example](./example) is provided to show how parent images can be extended in a Dockerfile for a service. This should be a good starting point for building .Net Core services conforming to FFC standards.

## Internal CA certificates

The image includes the certificate for the internal [CA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) so that traffic can traverse the network without encountering issues.

## Versioning

Images should be tagged according to the Dockerfile version and the version of .Net Core on which the image is based. For example, for Dockerfile version `1.0.0` based on .Net Core `3.1.0`, the built image would be tagged `1.0.0-dotnetcore3.1.0`.

## Example file

`Dockerfile` - This is an example project that consumes the parent images created by this repository.

## CI/CD
On commit to master Jenkins will build both `dotnetcore` and `dotnetcore-development` images and push them to the `defradigital` organisation in GitHub if the tag specified in `./Jenkinsfile` does not already exist in DockerHub.

## Licence

THIS INFORMATION IS LICENSED UNDER THE CONDITIONS OF THE OPEN GOVERNMENT LICENCE found at:

<http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3>

The following attribution statement MUST be cited in your products and applications when using this information.

> Contains public sector information licensed under the Open Government license v3

### About the licence

The Open Government Licence (OGL) was developed by the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) to enable information providers in the public sector to license the use and re-use of their information under a common open licence.

It is designed to encourage use and re-use of information freely and flexibly, with only a few conditions.
